Hi, guys, and this map, we're going to come across Soane load balancing.
Now you may remember that the white elastic load balancing works is actually deploys nodes within each
availability zone.
They're actually in your subnet and they take IP addresses in your subnet.
Now, you don't see these, but they're there now.
The elastic load balancing service needs to split traffic between your availability zones and the way
that it does.
This is determined by how you configure cross load balancing in the case where cross-line load balancing
is disabled.
This is what happens.
So requests come in.
50 percent of those requests will be sent to one Elby node, 50 percent get sent to the other Elby node.
Now, that means where you have an uneven number of instances.
So we have free instances here, but we have to hear 50 percent of the traffic gets divided into these
three instances.
So they each receive about sixteen point six percent.
However, in availability zone B, there's only two instances and they're also receiving 50 percent
of the traffic.
So they're actually taking 25 percent of the load each.
Now, that means they have a disproportionately high amount of load on them.
And if they're all the same instance type, that means these guys are more heavily loaded than these
guys.
And you might not want that.
So what you can do is enable cross load balancing.
When cross load balancing is enabled, the Elby service determines how much traffic to send to the nodes
in each availability zone.
So in the same example where we have free instances and one availability zone in two and another, it
knows that you have to send 60 here so that they get 20 percent each and 40 percent of the traffic to
this node so that these guys receive 20 percent each as well.
So that's how it works.
Whether cross-line load balancing is enabled or not, you'll always get the elastic load, balancing
service, distributing traffic between availability zones.
It's just how it proportions the traffic, how it breaks it up and allocates it.
So when it's enabled, it will allocate it proportionally to the number of instances in your availability
zones.
Otherwise, it just sends an equal number of traffic to each availability zone.
Now the default configuration depends on the type of load balancer and whether you create the load balance
of through the console or through the CLIA API.
So if an application load balancer, it's just enabled in all cases and you can't disable it with a
network load balancers disabled, but you can enable it.
And with a classic low balance, it's enabled if you create the CLP through the console, but it's disabled.
If you create the CLP through the CLP or API and again, you can enable or disable it manually as well.
So that's the ferry.
Let's get into some labs and actually look how this works.
I'm in the console now and what I'm going to do for this lab is set up an auto scaling group.
So let's just choose an Amazon.
And two, I we're going to choose the T2 micro.
We're going to call this L.C one.
I'm going to use my S3 full access Iame roll and then I'm going to paste in some user data.
So this is the same user data we've used before that's actually going to generate a name and an Apache
Web page with the name on it for each instance.
Now I can then click next, go through to security groups, choose my Web Access Security Group and
review.
And launch, she's my keeper, and then let's choose to create an auto scaling group.
I'm going to call it S.G. one and I'm going to start with three instances.
And what I want to do is put these across two availability zones.
So what that will do is it will mean I'll have two instances and one availability zone, one in the
US.
That's a great way to work out how cross-line load balancing is working.
I'm going to go next and I'm going to keep the group at the initial size, click right through to review
and create the auto scanning group.
So we should now have three instances coming up.
Let's just have a look.
We've got our three instances running.
We've got one in AP selfies to be and then two AP selfies to.
And that's all we need to do for now.
We're going to keep this configuration running for the next three labs where we're going to look at
the classic load balancer, the network load balancer and the application load balancer and see how
cross load balancing works for each of those types of elby.